doc/sys_syn_dblink.adoc, before:

:toc:
:toclevels: 4



= sys_syn_dblink



== Description

A `sys_syn` processor.



== Synopsis

`sys_syn_dblink` processes `sys_syn` queues.

The runtime workflow is (including `sys_syn` procedures):
....
 ┏━━━━━━━━━━━┓      ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
 ┃ Procedure ┃      ┃ Queue State ┃
 ┗━━━━━━━━━━━┛      ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

   ┌──────┐
   │pull()│
   └──────┘
       │
       ↓
   ┌──────┐                   ╭───────╮
   │move()│             ✳     │       │ When the attributes change
   └──────┘             ↓     ↓       │ or when you change the
       │              ┌─────────┐     │ status to retry the
       │              │Unclaimed│     │ process.
       ↓              └─────────┘     │
   ┌───────┐               │          │
   │claim()│               │          │
   └───────┘               ↓          │
       │               ┌───────┐      │
       │               │Claimed│      │
       ↓               └───────┘      │
   ┌──────┐                │          │
   │pull()│                │          │
   └──────┘                │          │
       │                   │          │
       ↓                   │          │
  ┌─────────┐              │          │
  │process()│              │          │
  └─────────┘         ╭────┴────╮     │
       │              │         │     │
       ↓              │         │     │
┌─────────────┐       │         │     │
│push_status()│       │         │     │
└─────────────┘       ↓         ↓     │
       │         ┌─────────┐  ┌────┐  │
       │         │Processed│  │Hold│  │
       ↓         └─────────┘  └────┘  │
 ┌───────────┐        │         │     │
 │processed()│        ✳         ╰─────╯
 └───────────┘
....

The setup workflow is:

* Install the `sys_syn` extension and its dependencies on the database that pulls the data, configure it, and add tables.

* Install the `hstore`, `dblink`, and `sys_syn_dblink` extensions on the database that receives the data.

* Create 1 or more in groups (`sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def`).

* Create 1 or more out groups (`sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def`).

* Create 1 or more put groups (`sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def`).

* Optionally add table transform rules to `sys_syn_dblink.put_table_transforms`.

* Optionally add column transform rules to `sys_syn_dblink.put_column_transforms`.

* Call `sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_create` for each table that you are bringing into this database.



== User Guide



=== Requirements

Usage requirements:

- PostgreSQL 9.5 or above.
- The `hstore` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `dblink` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `sys_syn` and `pgcrypto` PostgreSQL extensions installed and used on the database that you are connecting to.  These are not required for the database that needs sys_syn_dblink installed on it.
- The `temporal_tables` PostgreSQL extension if you use the temporal or bitemporal table_types.

Test requirements:

- The `tinyint` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `pgcrypto` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `sys_syn` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `temporal_tables` PostgreSQL extension.

Documentation requirements:

- `asciidoc`
- `source-highlight`



=== Installation



==== Per Server Installation

[source,shell]
----
sudo PATH=$PATH make clean && sudo PATH=$PATH make install && make installcheck
----



==== Per Database Installation

You only need to run this on the database(s) that will run `sys_syn_dblink`.

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION hstore;
CREATE EXTENSION dblink;
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn_dblink;
----



=== Usage



==== Setup



===== Example Schema & Data

The following examples assume the following schema and data:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION pgcrypto;
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn;

INSERT INTO sys_syn.settings(cluster_id) VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test');

CREATE SCHEMA user_data
    AUTHORIZATION postgres;

CREATE TABLE user_data.test_table (
        test_table_id integer NOT NULL,
        test_table_text text,
        CONSTRAINT test_table_pkey PRIMARY KEY (test_table_id));

INSERT INTO sys_syn.in_groups_def VALUES ('in');

DO $$BEGIN
        EXECUTE sys_syn.in_table_create_sql('user_data.test_table'::regclass, 'in');
END$$;

INSERT INTO user_data.test_table(
        test_table_id, test_table_text)
VALUES  (1,              'test_data 1'),
        (2,              'test_data 2'),
        (3,              'test_data 3');

INSERT INTO sys_syn.out_groups_def VALUES ('out');

SELECT sys_syn.out_table_create('user_data', 'test_table', 'out', data_view => TRUE);

SELECT user_data.test_table_pull(FALSE);

SELECT user_data.test_table_out_move_1();

SELECT id, delta_type, queue_state FROM user_data.test_table_out_queue;

CREATE SCHEMA processor_data
        AUTHORIZATION postgres;

SELECT  dblink_connect('sys_syn_test', 'dbname=' || quote_literal(current_database()) || ' host=' ||
        quote_literal(split_part((SELECT pg_settings.setting FROM pg_settings WHERE pg_settings.name = 'unix_socket_directories'), ', ', 1)));
----

The pull and move operations must be run under different transactions.



===== Install the Extension

You may need to install these dependencies first:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION hstore;
CREATE EXTENSION dblink;
----

If you have not already installed `sys_syn_dblink`, install it now with:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn_dblink;
----



===== Add the Remote In Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def` table.  Supply the remote cluster_id and the remote `in_group_id`.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test', 'in');
----

If you do not know the remote sys_syn cluster_id, you can query it with:

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM dblink('sys_syn_test', 'SELECT cluster_id FROM sys_syn.settings') AS settings_cluster_id(cluster_id text);
----

If the remote sys_syn has not moved any data since it was installed, the settings table may be blank.



===== Add the Remote Out Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def` table.  Supply the remote cluster_id and the remote `out_group_id`.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test', 'out');
----



===== Add the Local Put Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def` table.  Supply the `put_group_id` that you will use.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def VALUES ('put');
----



===== Add the Table

The `dblink` must be open when you add the table.

When running the `sys_syn_dblink` procedures, the `dblink` connection must be open and available under the name that you specified when you added the table.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_create (
        proc_schema     => 'processor_data',
        in_table_id     => 'test_table',
        out_group_id    => 'out',
        put_group_id    => 'put',
        dblink_connname => 'sys_syn_test');
----



===== Drop the Table

Specify true to drop the put table.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_drop ('test_table', false);
----



==== Runtime Implementation




===== Claim the Records

Claiming the records ensures that `sys_syn` nor another `sys_syn_dblink` instance will modify the claimed data or status while this instance processes the data.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT  dblink_exec('sys_syn_test', 'BEGIN');

SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_claim_1();

SELECT  dblink_exec('sys_syn_test', 'COMMIT');
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no records to claim and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run.



===== Pull the Records

This pulls the records across the `dblink` connection.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_pull_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no records in the queue and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run.



===== Process the Records

This processes the records.  The `dblink` connection is not used for this step.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_process_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there were no records processed and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run.



===== Push the Processing Status

This pushes the processing statuses (successes and/or failures) via the `dblink` connection back to the queue and updates the queue.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_push_status_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no statuses to push.  True indicates that the statuses were pushed and that the queue was updated.



==== Advanced

===== put_column_transforms

When new tables are added, the rules in this table adds, modifies, or removes columns.  The rule is applied when all criteria that is specified in the rule are true.

.Columns
rule_group_id::
    NULL for a rule that applies to all tables.
priority::
    The order that the rule is applied.
proc_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the proc_table_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
cluster_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the cluster_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_table_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
out_group_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the out_group_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_group_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_group_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
proc_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the proc_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
put_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the put_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
put_table_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the put_table_name matches this `LIKE` pattern.
table_type_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the table_type_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
attributes_array::
    The rule is applied to the column when the attributes_array is this value.
dblink_connname_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the dblink_connname matches this `LIKE` pattern.
remote_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the remote_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_column_type::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_column_type is this value.
column_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the column name matches this `LIKE` pattern.
data_type_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the data type matches this `LIKE` pattern.
primary_in_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the foreign or primary key points to an in_table_id that matches this `LIKE` pattern.  The primary_column_name_like column is required when this is used.
primary_column_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the foreign or primary key points to a column_name that matches this `LIKE` pattern.  The primary_in_table_id_like column is required when this is used.
new_data_type::
    Change the column's data type to this.
new_in_column_type::
    Change the column's in_column_type to this.
new_column_name::
    Change the column's name to this.
pos_method::
    Change the column's position using this method.
pos_before::
    Move the column before instead of after.
pos_ref_column_names_like::
    If the position method requires a reference column, find the reference column in the first `LIKE` pattern that matches in this array.
pos_in_column_type::
    If the position method requires an in_column_type, specify it here.
variable_name::
    Store the column's value or expression into this variable.  Use new_data_type to specify the variable's data type.
variable_delta_types::
    Specify the delta types that this expression runs under.
variable_exception_traps::
    Trap expression exceptions using the specified traps.
expression::
    Specify an expression for this column.  The prior column or expression can be referenced by %1
add_columns::
    Add the specified columns.
omit::
    Omit this column from the table.  If a variable_name was specified, the associated expression is stored into this variable.  This can be accessed from other expressions.
final_ids::
    Stop processing rules with any of these IDs.
final_rule::
    Stop processing all rules after this one.
delta_types::
    Specify the delta types that this expression runs under.
comments::
    If you want to add comments about this rule in this table, add them in this column.



=== More Examples

See the `test` directory for more examples.



== Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2016-2017.

Legal Notice:  See the COPYRIGHT file.

`sys_syn_dblink` copyright is novated to PostgreSQL Global Development Group.

Commit message:

Lower the default batch sizes

doc/sys_syn_dblink.adoc, after:

:toc:
:toclevels: 4



= sys_syn_dblink



== Description

A `sys_syn` processor.



== Synopsis

`sys_syn_dblink` processes `sys_syn` queues.

The runtime workflow is (including `sys_syn` procedures):
....
 ┏━━━━━━━━━━━┓      ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
 ┃ Procedure ┃      ┃ Queue State ┃
 ┗━━━━━━━━━━━┛      ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

   ┌──────┐
   │pull()│
   └──────┘
       │
       ↓
   ┌──────┐                   ╭───────╮
   │move()│             ✳     │       │ When the attributes change
   └──────┘             ↓     ↓       │ or when you change the
       │              ┌─────────┐     │ status to retry the
       │              │Unclaimed│     │ process.
       ↓              └─────────┘     │
   ┌───────┐               │          │
   │claim()│               │          │
   └───────┘               ↓          │
       │               ┌───────┐      │
       │               │Claimed│      │
       ↓               └───────┘      │
   ┌──────┐                │          │
   │pull()│                │          │
   └──────┘                │          │
       │                   │          │
       ↓                   │          │
  ┌─────────┐              │          │
  │process()│              │          │
  └─────────┘         ╭────┴────╮     │
       │              │         │     │
       ↓              │         │     │
┌─────────────┐       │         │     │
│push_status()│       │         │     │
└─────────────┘       ↓         ↓     │
       │         ┌─────────┐  ┌────┐  │
       │         │Processed│  │Hold│  │
       ↓         └─────────┘  └────┘  │
 ┌───────────┐        │         │     │
 │processed()│        ✳         ╰─────╯
 └───────────┘
....

The setup workflow is:

* Install the `sys_syn` extension on the database that pulls the data, configure it, and add tables.

* Install the `hstore`, `dblink`, and `sys_syn_dblink` extensions on the database that receives the data.

* Create 1 or more in groups (`sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def`).

* Create 1 or more out groups (`sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def`).

* Create 1 or more put groups (`sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def`).

* Optionally add table transform rules to `sys_syn_dblink.put_table_transforms`.

* Optionally add column transform rules to `sys_syn_dblink.put_column_transforms`.

* Create 1 or more process tables (`sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_create`).



== User Guide



=== Requirements

Usage requirements:

- PostgreSQL 9.5 or above.
- The `hstore` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `dblink` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `sys_syn` PostgreSQL extension installed and used on the database that you are connecting to.  This is not required for the database that needs sys_syn_dblink installed on it.
- The `temporal_tables` PostgreSQL extension if you use the temporal or bitemporal table_types.

Test requirements:

- The `tinyint` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `sys_syn` PostgreSQL extension.
- The `temporal_tables` PostgreSQL extension.

Documentation requirements:

- `asciidoc`
- `source-highlight`



=== Installation



==== Per Server Installation

[source,shell]
----
sudo PATH=$PATH make clean && sudo PATH=$PATH make install && make installcheck
----



==== Per Database Installation

You only need to run this on the database(s) that will run `sys_syn_dblink`.

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION hstore;
CREATE EXTENSION dblink;
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn_dblink;
----



=== Usage



==== Setup



===== Example Schema & Data

The following examples assume the following schema and data:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn;

INSERT INTO sys_syn.settings(cluster_id) VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test');

CREATE SCHEMA user_data
    AUTHORIZATION postgres;

CREATE TABLE user_data.test_table (
        test_table_id integer NOT NULL,
        test_table_text text,
        CONSTRAINT test_table_pkey PRIMARY KEY (test_table_id));

INSERT INTO sys_syn.in_groups_def VALUES ('in');

DO $$BEGIN
        EXECUTE sys_syn.in_table_create_sql('user_data.test_table'::regclass, 'in');
END$$;

INSERT INTO user_data.test_table(
        test_table_id, test_table_text)
VALUES  (1,              'test_data 1'),
        (2,              'test_data 2'),
        (3,              'test_data 3');

INSERT INTO sys_syn.out_groups_def VALUES ('out');

SELECT sys_syn.out_table_create('user_data', 'test_table', 'out', data_view => TRUE);

SELECT user_data.test_table_pull(FALSE);

SELECT user_data.test_table_out_move_1();

SELECT id, delta_type, queue_state FROM user_data.test_table_out_queue;

CREATE SCHEMA processor_data
        AUTHORIZATION postgres;

SELECT  dblink_connect('sys_syn_test', 'dbname=' || quote_literal(current_database()) || ' host=' ||
        quote_literal(split_part((SELECT pg_settings.setting FROM pg_settings WHERE pg_settings.name = 'unix_socket_directories'), ', ', 1)));
----

The pull and move operations must be run under different transactions.



===== Install the Extension

You may need to install these dependencies first:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION hstore;
CREATE EXTENSION dblink;
----

If you have not already installed `sys_syn_dblink`, install it now with:

[source,sql]
----
CREATE EXTENSION sys_syn_dblink;
----



===== Add the Remote In Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def` table.  Supply the remote cluster_id and the remote `in_group_id`.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.in_groups_def VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test', 'in');
----

If you do not know the remote sys_syn cluster_id, you can query it with:

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM dblink('sys_syn_test', 'SELECT cluster_id FROM sys_syn.settings') AS settings_cluster_id(cluster_id text);
----

If the remote sys_syn has not moved any data since it was installed, the settings table may be blank.



===== Add the Remote Out Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def` table.  Supply the remote cluster_id and the remote `out_group_id`.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.out_groups_def VALUES ('sys_syn_dblink-test', 'out');
----



===== Add the Local Put Group ID

Insert a record into the `sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def` table.  Supply the `put_group_id` that you will use.

[source,sql]
----
INSERT INTO sys_syn_dblink.put_groups_def VALUES ('put');
----



===== Add the Table

The `dblink` must be open when you add the table.

When running the `sys_syn_dblink` procedures, the `dblink` connection must be open and available under the name that you specified when you added the table.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_create (
        proc_schema     => 'processor_data',
        in_table_id     => 'test_table',
        out_group_id    => 'out',
        put_group_id    => 'put',
        dblink_connname => 'sys_syn_test');
----



===== Drop the Table

Specify true to drop the put table.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT sys_syn_dblink.proc_table_drop ('test_table', false);
----



==== Runtime Implementation




===== Claim the Records

Claiming the records ensures that `sys_syn` nor another `sys_syn_dblink` instance will modify the claimed data or status while this instance processes the data.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT  dblink_exec('sys_syn_test', 'BEGIN');

SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_claim_1();

SELECT  dblink_exec('sys_syn_test', 'COMMIT');
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no records to claim and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run.



===== Pull the Records

This pulls the records across the `dblink` connection.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_pull_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no records in the queue and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run and that you may need to call this function again, after completing all of the following steps, to pull another batch of records.

WARNING:  This function only pulls a limited batch of records.  Repeat the pull, process, and push status steps until this function returns false.



===== Process the Records

This processes the records.  The `dblink` connection is not used for this step.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_process_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there were no records processed and that the following steps do not need to be run at this time.  True indicates that the following steps are ready to run and that you may need to call this function again, after completing the following steps, to process another batch of records.

WARNING:  This function only processes a limited batch of records.  Repeat the process and push status steps until this function returns false.



===== Push the Processing Status

This pushes the processing statuses (successes and/or failures) via the `dblink` connection back to the queue and updates the queue.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM processor_data.test_table_push_status_1();
----

A boolean is returned.  False indicates that there are no statuses to push.  True indicates that the statuses were pushed and that the queue was updated.



==== Advanced

===== put_column_transforms

When new tables are added, the rules in the `sys_syn_dblink.put_column_transforms` table adds, modifies, or removes columns.  The rule is applied when all criteria that is specified in the rule are true.

.Columns
rule_group_id::
    NULL for a rule that applies to all tables.
priority::
    The order that the rule is applied.
proc_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the proc_table_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
cluster_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the cluster_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_table_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
out_group_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the out_group_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_group_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_group_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
proc_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the proc_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
put_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the put_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
put_table_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the put_table_name matches this `LIKE` pattern.
table_type_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the table_type_id matches this `LIKE` pattern.
attributes_array::
    The rule is applied to the column when the attributes_array is this value.
dblink_connname_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the dblink_connname matches this `LIKE` pattern.
remote_schema_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the remote_schema matches this `LIKE` pattern.
in_column_type::
    The rule is applied to the column when the in_column_type is this value.
column_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the column name matches this `LIKE` pattern.
data_type_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the data type matches this `LIKE` pattern.
primary_in_table_id_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the foreign or primary key points to an `in_table_id` that matches this `LIKE` pattern.  The primary_column_name_like column is required when this is used.
primary_column_name_like::
    The rule is applied to the column when the foreign or primary key points to a `column_name` that matches this `LIKE` pattern.  The primary_in_table_id_like column is required when this is used.
new_data_type::
    Change the column's data type to this.
new_in_column_type::
    Change the column's in_column_type to this.
new_column_name::
    Change the column's name to this.
pos_method::
    Change the column's position using this method.
pos_before::
    Move the column before instead of after.
pos_ref_column_names_like::
    If the position method requires a reference column, find the reference column in the first `LIKE` pattern that matches in this array.
pos_in_column_type::
    If the position method requires an in_column_type, specify it here.
variable_name::
    Store the column's value or expression into this variable.  Use new_data_type to specify the variable's data type.
variable_delta_types::
    Specify the delta types that this expression runs under.
variable_exception_traps::
    Trap expression exceptions using the specified traps.
expression::
    Specify an expression for this column.  The prior column or expression can be referenced by %1
add_columns::
    Add the specified columns.
omit::
    Omit this column from the table.  If a variable_name was specified, the associated expression is stored into this variable.  This can be accessed from other expressions.
final_ids::
    Stop processing rules with any of these IDs.
final_rule::
    Stop processing all rules after this one.
delta_types::
    Specify the delta types that this expression runs under.
comments::
    If you want to add comments about this rule in this table, add them in this column.



=== More Examples

See the `test` directory for more examples.



== Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2016-2017.

Legal Notice:  See the COPYRIGHT file.

`sys_syn_dblink` copyright is novated to PostgreSQL Global Development Group.
